URL: OROBANCHE RAMOSA(L.)Family:OrobanchaceaeSynonyms:Phelipanche ramosa(L.)PomelCommon names:Hemp broomrape, Yerba sosa.An annual plant quite similar toO. aegyptiaca. It also has a branched stem up to 40 cm tall. It has pale to bright blue flowers up to 2 cm long. Flowers have a bract and two bracteoles.It reproduces by seeds. A single plant may produce more than 40 fruits and each fruit may have more 1200 seeds. Seed will only germinate in the presence of moisture, root exudates and warm soil temperature.The biology of this weed is very similar to the one described forO. aegyptiaca. Conditions for growth are nearly the same as quoted forO. aegyptiaca.There are two sub species ofO. ramosa: ramosaandmutelii. The diferences between both are small and it is mainly related to the corolla's length.O. ramosaparasites various solanaceous crops, among them tobacco, tomato, potato, pepper and eggplant. Other affected crops are linseed, rapeseed and cabbage. It is also a parasite of some wild species, such asDatura stramonium, Parthenium hysterophorusandAmaranthusspp.It is well distributed in the Mediterranean bassin, the Near East, USA, Mexico, Cuba and Chile. The same control measures indicated forO. aegyptiacaare applicable forO. ramosacontrol.Countries:Algeria,Chile,Cyprus,Egypt,Eritrea,Ethiopia,Jordan,Lebanon,Sudan,Syria,TurkeyBack to Database of Weed Species in Crops   and Countries 
URL: OROBANCHE AEGYPTIACAPers.Family:OrobanchaceaeSynonyms:Phelipanche aegyptiaca (Pers.) PomelRoot parasitic plant with branched stem up to 40 cm tall. The plant has two growth cycles, one subterranean and the other one aerial, being the first the longest one. The weed exerts major damage to crops during the subterranean cycle. The plant takes resources for its life from host crops.It propagates via seeds. Seed germinates in the presence of warm soil temperature, moisture, oxygen and root exudates.It grows well in light textured and poor organic matter soils. Moisture is essential at the time of seed germination, after it the parasite will live taking water and food resources from the host plant.It parasites solanaceous crops, such as tomato, potato, and also lentil and cabbage, and it is widely spread in the Mediterranean countries and in the Near East.There is no single technology to controlOrobanche aegyptiaca. Various procedures should be carried out to effectively reduce seed bank in soil and its weed stand, such as:- Use of trap crops: cotton, maize, sorghum. One-season rotation with any of these crops will not bring any substantial reduction of the weed, no less than 2-year rotation is required to exhaust part of the seed bank available in soil.- Use of N-fertilizers. Nitrogen really inhibits the growth of the weed, the problem is that not all susceptible crops accept high rates of N.- Hand-pulling. In areas of small farmers, this manual procedure may also reduce Orobanche stand in long term.- Use of herbicides. There is the perspective of the use of some sulfonyl urea herbicides, such as chlorsulfuron and triasulfuron.Countries:Algeria,Cyprus,Egypt,Ethiopia,Iran,Jordan,Lebanon,Nepal,Syria,SudanBack to Database of Weed Species in Crops and Countries 
URL: OROBANCHE CRENATAForsk.Family:OrobanchaceaeSynonyms:Orobanche oweriniiG. BeckCommon names:broomrape, zarazikha.An annual parasitic weed with an unbranched stem up to 1.3 m tall. Flowers dark reddish and fruits capsule dark brown colour.It reproduces via seeds. Seed requires the presence of crop-host root exudates, moisture and warm temperature for its germination.It is found in hot and semi-dry areas and grows well in irrigated fields. It is a parasitic weed of faba bean, lentil, chickpea and vetch. It is widely spread in the Mediterranean zones, Near East and part of Asia.The same methods listed forO.aegyptiaca/O.ramosacan also be implemented for this weed. In addition, post-emergence glyphosate at 40 g a.i./ha has been successfully used in some places in faba beans. Phytoxicity may take place if the rates are higher or the application is delayed.Countries:Algeria,Egypt,Ethiopia,Jordan,Morocco,Syria,Sudan,TunisiaBack to Database of Weed Species in Crops and Countries 
URL: CONVOLVULUS ARVENSISL.Family:ConvolvulaceaeCommon names:Field bindweed Correguela Correhuela Viuniok.A persistent perennial weed which spreads radially, producing up to 25 or more shoots in one season, many of which can reach up to 3 m in length, forming a dense mat on the ground.The root system of the plant is deep, extensive and can penetrate down to 3 m or more, while lateral creeping roots can reach lengths of up to 2 m. The plant also forms underground stems (rhizomes) which vary in length from a few centimetres to over one metre.A common weed in several annual and perennial crops mainly in temperate countries. It is uncommon in hot climate countries.The plant produces viable seed which is a good source of infestation but not the only one. The seeds become viable 10 to 15 days after pollination and can remain viable in the soil for twenty or more years.The roots ofC. arvensishave tremendous regenerative capacity owing to the food reserves stored in them, especially in the deeper roots and this is why shoots of the weed reappear on the soil surface even after deep cultivations. Rhizomes are also important means of spreading the weed.Cultural control begins with growing a well-managed, vigorous crop. Competitive cropping, with e.g. alfalfa, can also contribute to reducing C. arvensis infestations. It must reduce light available to the weed to 6% or less of full sunlight for 3 years in order to be effective. Mulching which excludes light from the soil surface can controlC. arvensisprovided that the weed does not grow through it.Soil solarization involves covering wet soil with sheets of clear plastic during the summer for a period of six to eight weeks. The method can be useful only in areas with hot summers and in fallow fields. Soil solarization is not very satisfactory against establishedC. arvensisbut it has been shown to kill the seeds of the weed.Mechanical control ofC. arvensiscan be successful if it is persistent for a number of years and interventions are timely. The usual cultivations involved in land preparation before sowing or planting a crop or the few cultivations for weed destruction in vineyards and orchards are ineffective in controlling the weed and may actually help to spread it.Control requires frequent cultivations which should not be too deep. Swan (1989) showed that the best time for cultivating was 12 days after emergence, repeated at intervals of about 18 days. Care is needed to avoid damage to the crop. The optimum depth of cultivation is 10 cm. Deeper cutting lengthens the interval between cultivations but requires more power. Frequent shallow hand hoeing can be as effective as cultivations.Herbicides can play a significant role in a management plan. Although many herbicides can controlC. arvensisthere are few instances of selective use in crops, especially in vegetables.In irrigated orchardsC. arvensishas been controlled with doses of glyphosate down to 1.6-2.0 kg a.e./ha . In applying glyphosate the diluent volume must not be very high otherwise efficacy may be reduced; 200-300 l/ha are adequate.2,4-D and MCPA can safely be applied in citrus orchards provided the tree foliage is not sprayed.In vineyards consecutive annual applications of the mixture terbuthylazine + terbumeton, each at 3.75 - 5 kg a.i./ha, has completely controlled the weed. However, for reasons of safety to the crop this herbicide mixture should be given in two split applications with two thirds initially and the remaining one third four to five months later. The same mixture as well as terbumeton alone at 7.5-10 kg a.i./ha have similarly controlledC. arvensisin citrus.Predatory and parasitic insects have been tried on a limited scale with some success but the method has not yet found practical application.It is a common weed in vineyards, orchards, vegetables, winter wheat, spring barley, sugarbeet and winter rape.C. arvensishas a world-wide distribution, growing in all continents, but it is not found in hot climatic areas of the world. It thrives in moist fertile soils but can survive hot dry summers in fallow land. It tolerates frost but does not do well under dense shade.Countries:Algeria,Chile,Cyprus,Eritrea,India,Iran,Jordan,Lebanon,LibyaBack to Database of Weed Species in Crops and Countries 
URL: IMPERATA CYLINDRICA(L.) C.E. HubbL.Family:PoaceaeSynonyms:Imperata arundinaceaCyr.Common names:alang-alang, lalang-alang, bladygrass, cogon grass, carrizo, paillotteA perennial grass which produces loose to compact tufts with erect culms (10-280 cm long) arising from tough, branched, whitish, creeping rhizomes. Most rhizomes are found in the upper 40 cm of the soil profile but they can grow to depths of more than one metre. The inflorescence is a cylindrical, spike-like panicle, 3-60 cm long and 0.5-2.5 cm wide, consisting of many spikelets surrounded by hairs which give the inflorescence a silky, white appearance.There are several varieties ofI. cylindrica:major, africana, latifoliaandeuropa.A common weed (C4 plant) in hot climatic conditions in several countries of Africa south of Sahara, South and South East AsiaI. cylindricamay reproduce by seed and rhizomes. Flowering ofI. cylindricais usually initiated by stress, such as burning, cutting or drought. Numerous seeds produced (as many as 3,000 per plant) which can be wind-dispersed over long distances. 95 percent of seeds can germinate within a week of harvest and seeds can remain viable for at least one year.I. cylindricaalso reproduces vegetatively. A single rhizome node could lead to the production of 350 shoots in six weeks and ground cover of 4 m2 in 11 weeks.I. cylindricais tolerant of burning and rapid regrowth occurs from the {{rhizomes}g} which are protected by the soil.Flattening foliage with rollers or boards can help to suppressI. cylindrica, if used in combination with a legume cover crop. Legumes, such asMucuna pruriens, have been effective in suppressing Imperata. So one method of control would be intercropping of tree crops, such as rubber and oil palm, withMucuna pruriensas an alternative to control Imperata whilst using land productively.Glyphosate is applied typically at a dose rate of 1.8 kg a.e./ha to actively growing foliage ofI. cylindricafrom where it is absorbed and translocated to the rhizomes, causing death of most of the plant within 2-4 weeks. A little regrowth is almost inevitable and this should be treated with spot applications. Glyphosate can be applied in volume rates ranging from 20 l/ha (using spinning disc sprayers) to 600 l/ha (using hand-held hydraulic sprayers). Glyphosate should be applied 6-8 hours before rain falls and washes it off the weed.I. cylindricais a common weed of rubber, oil palm, coconut, pineapple, tea and forestry, in addition to a wide range of annual crops including upland rice, maize, groundnut, cotton and many others It is a major weed in South & South East Asia, and Africa south of Sahara. Introduced in Alabama, USA, from Japan, in 1912.Countries:Algeria,Benin,Cameroon,Indonesia,Iran,Nigeria,UgandaBack to Database of Weed Species in Crops   and Countries 
URL: BIDENS PILOSAL.Family:AsteraceaeSynonyms: Bidens chinensis Willd., B.leucantha Willd., B. subalternans Dc.Common names:Spanish needle, Hairy Beggartick, Beggar tick, Romerillo, Moriseco, Mozote, ZégwyiAn annual herb, up to 90 cm tall, 4-angled stem glabrous, leaves opposite, divided into 3-5 ovate-lanceolate, flowers yellow and achenes nearly linear.Bidens pilosa is a pantropical plant easily found in hot climate countries. It propagates via seeds.In areas with conventional land preparation and cultivationB. pilosais not a problem, but not in areas, where certain herbicides are used repeatedly.Resistant biotypes to imazaquin herbicide have been found in fields of soyabean in Brazil (1993), and also to paraquat in coffee plantations in Kenya (1991).In Brazil, effective control ofB. pilosaby aHelminthosporiumstrain has been found in soyabean areas.It is common in arable land, gardens and waste places, and widely spread in tropical and sub-tropical zones.Countries:Bahamas,Burundi,Cameroon,Colombia,Costa Rica,Erithrea,RwandaBack toDatabase of Weed Species in Crops and Countries 
URL: CHAMAESYCE HIRTA(L.) Millsp.Family:EuphorbiaceaeSynonyms:E.piluliferaL.,Euphorbia hirtaL.Annual;erect or decumbent stems, to 30 cm tall, with yellow hairs, milky sap; dark green to dark reddish, rounded, oblong leaves, to 5 cm long, 2 cm wide, finely serrate. Inflorescence clusters of flowers arising from axils. Fruit 3-lobed capsule.It is common in upland fields, though more common along paths and in other disturbed areas.C. hirtais widely distributed in hot climate countries of Latin America, Asia and Africa.Countries:Bahamas,Bangladesh,Brazil,Cameroon,India,Nepal,Thailand,TogoBack to Database of Weed Species in Crops and Countries 
URL: PARTHENIUM HYSTEROPHORUSL.Family:AsteraceaeCommon names:Whitetop, Whitehead, Barley flower, Congress Grass, Amargosa, Escoba AmargaAn erect annual herb with alternate, deeply-dissected leaves, growing up to 2 m tall with much branched inflorescences bearing white flower heads and numerous obovoid, smooth and black achenes.Parthenium is a native of tropical America and was introduced into Africa, Asia and Oceania in cereal and grass seed shipments from U.S.A. during the 1950s.Parthenium is wide-spread in grassland, fruit tree orchards and arable land in neutral and acid soils.In Central America and the Caribbean area parthenium mainly thrives in areas repeatedly treated with paraquat or with certain soil-acting herbicides selectively used in vegetable and legume crops such as trifluralin, diphenamid and others.The germination of parthenium reaches a maximum 1-6 months after the achenes ripen. The seeds are not able to germinate in soil below a depth of 5 cm. In the Caribbean area parthenium flowers 30-45 days after germination and the whole plant cycle is completed within about 5 months, with a single plant producing an average of 810 flower heads.In infested crop areas deep ploughing during the land preparation can reduce the stand of parthenium weed. In small areas hand hoeing during the early growth stages prevents flowering. Hoeing mature plants is ineffective because of regrowth from crown buds. In India, in heavy infested areas, replacement of parthenium has been achieved through the use of plants ofCassiaspp.. Such a practice consists in manual removal of parthenium plants and subsequent seeding of Cassia plants (C. sericeaorC. unifloraMill.), population size of which increased with time in relation to that of parthenium. Two years laterCassia:partheniumratio was higher than 21:1.Parthenium weed is not controlled by several well known herbicides, such as paraquat trifluralin, diphenamid, napropamide and the acetanilides, alachlor, metolachlor and propachlor (Labrada 1990). In citrus, coffee and banana plantations treated repeatedly with paraquat parthenium has become the predominant species within one year. Similar infestations have ocurred in vegetable and legume fields treated for several years with trifluralin.Fomesafen in soyabean, metribuzin in potatoes and tomatoes, linuron and oxadiazon in onions and garlic, and 2,4 D in maize and pastures are among the most effective herbicides for the control of parthenium. Previous testing of any of these herbicides in local conditions is required before its application in large fields.In some situations it is useful to determine the economical threshold of parthenium in affected crop areas as an aid to decision-making on the need for costly chemical control.It is a common weed in several annual and perennial crops in hot climatic conditions.Native of tropical America, very common in the Caribbean, Mexico, Central America, Venezuela, Colombia and Brazil. Introduced in India and Australia in the recent past in cereal and grass seed shipments. It has been also found in Ethiopia and in South Africa.Countries:Bahamas,Belize,Cuba,Ethiopia,India,Mexico,VenezuelaBack to Database of Weed Species in Crops   and Countries 
URL: LEERSIA HEXANDRASw.Family:PoaceaePerennial; lax, ascending branched stems, 30-100 cm tall, nodes with distinct collar of white hairs; long rhizomes which form a dense mat; leaves flat, linear, to 20 cm long, midrib markedly scabrid below; ligule pale membrane. Inflorescence open panicle of ascending branches; spikelets oblong, 3.4-4.8 mm long.Lowland and hydromorphic areas, moist soils or where flooding is shallow, drainage ditches and field margins; widespread and common. Unpleasant to remove by hand due to the risk of laceration from the scabrid midrib on the underside of the leaf.It is widely spread in tropical countries of all over the world.Countries:Burkina Faso,ThailandPASPALUM CONJUGATUMBergFamily:PoaceaeCommon name:Carabao grass, Zacate amargoAnnual or perennial, culms spreading and branching below. Leaves flat, narrowly lanceolate, 8-20 x 0.5-1.2 cm. Spikes 2, terminal on slender peduncles; spikelets imbricate. It reproduces by seeds and flowers all the year.It is a pantropical species and grows better in undisturbed soils. The plant is found in the settled areas, along trails, streams, and orchards.Countries:Guyana,Costa RicaPASPALUM DISTICHUML.Family:PoaceaeAn erect or ascending perennial grass, with slender rhizomes and extensive stolons forming thick mats. The stem is much-branched, horizontal, giving rise to secondary roots. Leaves are flat or folded, 3-12 cm long, 2-6 mm wide usually hairy on the basal margins, sheaths loose, keeled, finely hairy towards the top and ligule 0.75-1.25 mm long. This weed has 2 (rarely 1 or 3) terminal erect to spreading spike-like racemes, up to 7.5 cm long, each bearing usually solitary greenish to yellowish spikelets in 2 rows along one side. The spikelets are appressed, elliptical and the upper glume hairy. The fruit is a brownish caryopsis.It propagates mainly by creeping stolons and to some extent, by seeds. This weed is found in damp or wet situations, in wetland rice, and in dryland field crops and vegetables planted in bunded fields.P. distichumis difficult to control because the detached stolon fragments regenerate easily and are tolerant of many herbicides. Stolons left on the soil surface for a while may be dessicated under the action of sun and air.Countries:Iran,Nepal,Congo (Democratic)PASPALUM SCROMICULATUMFamily:PoaceaePerennial; tufted stems 15-100 cm tall; rooting at the lower nodes; leaves 5-30 cm long; ligule white membrane. Inflorescence 1-5 (-15) racemes bearing disc-like spikelets 1.5-3 mm across.This plant is common in uplands, widespread in the forest and savanna zone.Countries:Nepal,Togo,Vietnam,PASPALUM VAGINATUMSW.Family:PoaceaePerennial with creeping stems, 30-60 cm tall, stoloniferous; leaves stiff, ascending, 2.5-15 cm long. Inflorescence usually paired racemes, each about 1.5-7.5 cm long; spikelets ovate, flattened, 3-4.5 mm across.P. vaginatumgrows well in mangrove rice, coastal swamps and river deltas.Countries:Sierra LeonePOTAMOGETON DISTINCTUSA. BennFamily:PotamogetonaceaeA fleshy, broadleaf perennial weed, with a glabrous, shiny appearance. An aquatic perennial that grows in rice paddies, ditches, canals, marshes and ponds. It grows from May to October and flowers in July to August. Deep and/or prolonged flooding promote growth. It competes strongly with rice lowering yields and impeding water flow. Floating leaves are long petioled, alternate, lance-oblong to lance-elliptic. Submerged leaves are short-petioled, alternate, pellucid and thin, linear-lanceolate. Elongated flower stalks bear densely flowered spikes borne axillary from the stipules of floating leavesIt propagates by rhizomes and seed, but it spreads mainly by fast growing rhizomes and multiplies mainly by excised stems and overwintering scale-buds, formed several per rhizome.Flooded rice is the most suitable environment for the growth of this weed. It is common throughout Korea.It is rather difficult to control due to deep distribution of rhizomes in the soil and strong ability for regrowth. Stems are simple or short-branched.Countries:China,EgyptPHALARIS MINOR.Retz.Family:PoaceaeStem purplish; leaves dark green at the early stage. The length of internodes is more than wheat thus making it taller than wheat at maturity.P. minorhas both tillering and branching which gives it a rosette shape.. A large number of seeds are shattered before harvest. Each ear head produces 400-600 seeds. The caryopsis is elliptic (oval) with a lateral embryo and soft endosperm. Seed colour varies from green (immature) to light yellow and glossy dark brown with hard seed coat. After harvest seed remains dormant for 6 months. Panicle is ovate-oblong , spikelets narrower not so conspicuously striped. The glumes are of 4-6 mm in length, the wing of the keel narrower; fertile lemma lance-ovate about 3 mm long, acute and sterile lemma solitary about 1 mm long. Propagation is by seed.P. minorgrows well in cultivated and waste places. It is a weed of many winter season crops, including wheat and barley.P. minoris common in Eurasia, South and North America, East and Southern Africa, and Australia.It is controlled by several herbicides, the application rates of whom varies according to soil and growing conditions. Of the newer herbicides,P. minoris sensitive to fenoxaprop-P-ethyl, sulfosulfuron and clodinafop propargyl and provides satisfactory control under field conditions. Clethodim, sethoxydim, fluazifop-P-butyl, propachlor, metazachlor, atrazine and metribuzin can be used depending upon crop selectivity.P. minorhave evolved resistance to isoproturon in India; cross-resistance was also observed with diclofop-methyl.Countries:India,Iran,Morocco,Nepal,PakistanPHYLLANTHUS AMARUSSchum. & Thonn.Family:EuphorbiaceaeA slender, branched, glabrous annual herb, 20-60 cm high. Leaves oblong to elliptic, shortly petioled, rather pale beneath, 5-8 mm long. Flower axillary, corolla whitish or pale green, the sepals 5, green with white margins. Capsule 1.5-2 mm across. It reproduces by seeds.A plant found in sub-tropical and tropical environments. It is a rare weed, mainly found in vegetables, legumes and other arable areas.Conventional cultural methods are enough for its control.Countries:Bahamas,TogoBack to Database of Weed Species in Crops and Countries 
URL: ACHYRANTHES ASPERA(L.)Family:AmaranthaceaeSynonym:Achyranthes indica(L.) Mill.Common names:Devil's horsewhip, Soldier rod, Queue de rat, Collant, rabo de chancho, rabo de ratón, mozotilloAn erect plant, with glabrous and branching stem, usually a perennial herb with opposite lanceolate leaves. The root is a taproot. Flowers pale green in long terminal and short axillary spikes, closely bunched. Lower flowers in the spikes reflexed. The bracts with small spiny tips which enable the fruit stick to clothes and wool/skin of animals coming in passing contact with the spikes. The fruit is a capsule and seeds are oblong, somewhat red and spiny.The plant reproduces by its seeds, which can be disseminated by water and animals.A common weed in irrigated orchards and waste areas. It is found in the Near East, Eastern Africa, Central America and the Caribbean.Countries:NigeriaALTERNANTHERA SESSILIS(L.) R. Br. ex Roem. & SchultFamily:AmaranthaceaeAnnual or perennial; creeping stems with erect shoots,up to 50 cm height; leaves opposite, up to 8 cm long. Inflorescence white, to 1 cm across with segments to 2.5 mm long. It propagates mainly via seeds.This is a plant able to grow in different ecosystems, from moist lowland rice to upland conditions.Countries:Bangladesh,NepalAMARANTHUS VIRIDISL.Family:AmaranthaceaeCommon names:Pigweed, bledoAnnual and erect plant, up to 80 cm tall. Inflorescence, flowers in terminal racemes. Fruit 1-2 mm long. It reproduces via seeds, which germinate readily if placed closed to the soil surface. It does not germinate if seeds are below 3 cm soil depth.It is a common plant in hot and humid areas. It grows well in irrigated vegetables, legumes and other crops. It is found in hot climatic areas all over the world.A. viridisis well controlled using stake seedbed preparation as well as with the use of several pre-emergence and post-emergence herbicides.Countries:Brazil,Bangla Desh,Iran,ThailandCHENOPODIUM MURALEL.Family:ChenopodiaceaeSynonym:Chenopodium triangulareForsk.Common name:Nettle-leafed GoosefootAn erect, silvery green herb with alternate leaves. Usually less than one meter tall. The leaves are triangular, sharply, unequally toothed, to about 8 cm long, about 4 cm wide. Inflorescence axillary and terminal, dense mealy panicles. Perianth of 5, green, blunt sepals. Stamens 5, antitepalous. Seed with narrow, acute margins.This plant is common in vegetables, cereals and other annual crops. Widely distributed in North Africa and Near East.Countries:Jordan,Morocco,OmanCLEOME VISCOSA L.Family:Capparidaceae(Cleomaceae)Annual and erect plant, stems up to 90 cm height; leaves alternate compound, with 3-6 leaflets. Inflorescence, yellow flowers in leaf axils. The fruit is a cylindrical pod. Its reproduction is by seeds.Common in hot, humid and semi-dry areas in several crop areas, but rarely abundant. It is found in hot climatic areas all over the world.Countries:Dominican Republic,Thailand,Togo,COMMELINA DIFFUSABurm. F.Family:CommelinaceaeCommon name:CanutilloAnnual and creeping spreading plant. Inflorescence axillary, peduncled, the flowers cymose, enclosed in a complicate leaf-like spathe, the cyme usually 2 in each spathe, few-flowered; inner petals 6-7 mm long, the outer ones smaller.C. diffusa is a plant of hot environment, it can be found in irrigated and lowland areas. It reproduces by seeds and cut stems.It is found in hot climatic countries all over the world and is very common in rice, vegetables, legumes and cereals.The same control procedures recommended for Commelina benghalensis can also be used for C. diffusa.Countries:Bahamas,Costa Rica,Ecuador,Nepal,VietnamBack to Database of Weed Species in Crops and Countries 
URL: CYNODON DACTYLONL.Family:PoaceaeSynonyms: Capriola dactylon (L.) KuntzeCommon names:bermuda grass, bahama grass, devil's grass, couch grass, pasto bermuda, zacate bermuda, grama dulce, gramón, hierba fina, grama-seda, chiendent. petit chiendent, chiendent y pied-de-poule.Cynodon dactylon, bermudagrass, is a stoloniferous and rhizomatous creeping perennial grass with long prostrate stems (runners), rooting at the nodes. The upright shoots are 15-25 cm tall. The inflorescence is composed of 3-7 digitately arranged spikes, 3-10 cm long.Its growth and development are promoted by warm moist conditions. Bermudagrass rhizomes may be found in sandy soils below a depth of 20-25 cm,  but around 60% of rhizomes are usually located in the top 15 cm of soil.Roots are less than 10% of the total subterranean mass Lescano de Rios 1983. Bermudagrass is a common weed in fruit tree orchards, grassland, sugar cane, cotton and other arable crop plantations. In many citrus producing countries bermudagrass is considered the worst weed of these plantations.Heavy infestation of bermudagrass decreases cotton height, canopy width, leaf area index and seed cotton yield.Bermudagrass reproduces by seed production and through runners and rhizomes. Its growth and development are promoted by warm moist conditions. Bermudagrass can produce up to 230 seeds/panicle during the first three months after the initiation of seed set . Seeds germinate at temperatures above 20°C and emergence takes place within the next two weeks, with tillering ocurring after 25-30 days. The complete cycle (germination to seed production) is around four months. Plants which develop from rhizomes and from stolons have a similar pattern of growth. A single shoot from a rhizome may cover 2.5 sqm of soil surface in 150 days after its emergence.Intensive cultivation such as repeated deep disc ploughing and harrowing help to reduce bermudagrass infestations while dragging the rhizomes onto the soil surface aids dessiccation.In Botswana, two mouldboard plough passes, one after and the second at planting with a tractor-mounted plough were effective in reducing bermudagrass growth in the season of implementation and for at least a second year.Conservation tillage, especially no-tillage, favors growth of bermudagrass because rhizomes are not disturbed by tillage.Hand-hoeing is not an effective method to control bermudagrass in fruit tree orchards. In many cases lesions to shallow tree roots can occur which allows entry of pathogens such asPhytophthoraspp. and others.In Saudi Arabia, alfalfa has been effective as a smother crop under citrus.Relatively few herbicides are effective against bermudagrass. Bromacil is applied selectively against bermudagrass pre-emergence and early post-emergence in citrus and pineapple plantations.This compound tends to be readily leached and should not be used repeatedly for several years in soils having subterranean waters close to the soil surface. For the same reason it should not be applied to newly planted citrus nor used repeatedly on crops growing on sandy or low organic matter content soils.Glyphosate, applied to the foliage of bermudagrass, is also highly effective when used as a directed spray in several orchards crops. Two applications during the year tends to considerably reduce the bermudagrass cover in citrus plantations. The use of glyphosate in banana and plantain plantations requires carefully directed spraying to avoid spray solution being deposited on green parts of the plant pseudostem, which would damage the crop.In annual broadleaf crops, post-emergence application of fluazifop-butyl and haloxyfop-methyl are effective against bermudagrass, but one application of either of these herbicides commonly is not enough to achieve complete control.In soybeans, the use of pre-sowing EPTC has been recommended combined with a post-emergence application of fluazifop-butyl, haloxyfop-methyl or sethoxydim.Herbicides are often unaffordable in many small farming areas. Therefore, the implementation of mechanical control procedures, already mentioned, could help to minimize herbicide usage and to obtain technically effective bermudagrass control.A good approach for bermudagrass control could be the determination of economic thresholds for the weed. With this information it would be possible to advise when to initiate control practices. For example, in young Citrus reticulata plantations it was established that bermudagrass cover up to 25% within one year does not affect the growth of the trees, but heavier cover densities were highly depressive, hence control measures were recommended to be implemented before the plant cover reached the 25% level.Countries:Costa Rica,Bahamas,Bangladesh,Chile,Cuba,Cyprus,Iran,Jordan,Lebanon,Mexico,Nepal,Pakistan,Philippines,Thailand,Venezuela,VietnamBack to Database of Weed Species in Crops and Countries 
URL: CYPERUS ROTUNDUS(L.)Family:CyperaceaeSynonyms:Cyperus purpuro-variegatus Boeckeler, Cyperus stoloniferum pallidus Boeckeler, Cyperus tetrastachyos Desf., Cyperus tuberosus Roxb.Common names:Purple Nutsedge, nutgrass, coquito, cebollín, cebolleta, chufa, cipero, coyolillo, juncia, titiriça, capim-dada, herbe-a-oignon, souchet, kruglaya sit tiririça vermelha.A perennial sedge with a triangular stem up to 50 cm tall, without nodes and longer than the leaves.Leaves linear (grass-like), 15-20 cm long. The inflorescence is a simple or compound umbel, reddish-brown and supported by a bract of leaves. The fruit is an achene.Roots fibrous, extensively branched. The plant produces long rhizomes and chains of numerous basal bulbs and tubers that extend to considerable depth in soil. Matured tubers are black and fibrous.C. rotundusis a C4 plant. It is a common weed in nearly all tropical and sub-tropical areas. It prevails in hot and moist areas. However, it does not like heavy wet conditions as in lowland rice. It is also susceptible to shade. Crops producing wide and extensive canopy easily suppressC. rotundusgrowth.C. rotundusis not a common plant in salty soils.The plant reproduces via seed and rhizomes/tubers. The level of reproduction is quite fast under hot and moist conditions.The weed effectively competes with other plants through the release of several toxic susbtances contained either in basal bulbs or in tubers.NormallyC. rotundusprevail in areas repeatedly treated with several soil-acting herbicides. Therefore the best way to reduce its stand is through crop rotation using fastgrowing crops to avoid the use of herbicides. These crops suppress the growth of the weed through their canopies and shade over C. rotundus seedlings.In citrus plantations and pineapple, some herbicides are effective againstC.rotundus, such as early post-emergence treatment of bromacil and glyphosate. The later is effective provided that no rains occur six hours after its appplication.It is considered the most troublesome weed. It is found in several annual and perennial crops of many tropical and sub-tropical countries.Countries:Bahamas,Belize,Cameroon,Chile,Colombia,Congo (Democratic),Costa Rica,Egypt,Eritrea,Jordan,India,Iran,Mexico,MoroccoNepal,Nicaragua,Pakistan,Philippines,Togo,Thailand,Venezuela,VietnamBack to Database of Weed Species in Crops and Countries 
URL: PANICUM MAXIMUMJacq.Family:PoaceaeCommon names:Guinea grass, buffalograss, yerba de Guinea, zacate Guinea, Herbe de Guinée, capime guiné.A perennial, erect, tufted and robust grass, up to 3-4 m tall, with large, branched panicles. Stem short and stout, underground rootstock, hariy at the nodes. Leaves linear-lanceolate up to 75 cm long. Inflorescence is a conical panicle with horizontal branches, spikelets awnless with one fertile floret. The seed is 1 mm long and light brown.It is a C4 plant, which tolerates very well hot and dry conditions. For this reason it can be found either in irrigated crop areas or dry waste places.This perennial grass propagates via its seeds and tillers.P. maximumis also used as a forage. Repeated cuttings do not harm the vigour of the plant. However, ploughing severely reduces its stand in infested areas.In orchards where ploughing or other mechanical operations are not possible because of possible damage to crop roots, some selective herbicides have been used effectively, e.g. glyphosate and gluphosinate-ammonium in post-emergence treatments.P. maximumis a common plant in crop areas and waste places in several countries of West and Central Africa, tropical Latin America and Asia. Eventually P. maximum is a weed problem in citrus and banana plantations.Countries:Bahamas,Cameroon,CubaBack to Database of Weed Species in Crops and Countries 
URL: RHYNCHELYTRUM REPENS(Willd.) C.E. HubbardFamily:PoaceaeSynonyms:Tricholaena repensvar. rosea Alb.,Rhynchelytrum roseum(Nees) Stapf & C.E. Hubb,Panicum roseumSteud.,Melinis roseaHackAnnual; culms slender, about 1 m tall or often shorter with sparsely hairy sheaths; the blades 5-20 cm long, 2-8 mm wide, hairy or glabrous; panicles 10-20 cm long, reddish, purple or white; spikelets about 5 mm long, with hairs extending 4-5 mm beyond. It reproduces by seeds and flowers all the year.R. repensCountries:ThailandSCIRPUS JUNCOIDESRoxb.Family:CyperaceaeSynonym:Scirpus erectusPoirAn erect annual weed, 20-70 cm high. Seeds germinate at 13-14 °C but it cannot germinate under dryland conditions. It flowers at 40-50 days after germination and ripens 1 month after flowering. S. juncoides produces seed, 2.0-2.3 mm long, 1.6-1.7 mm wide and 0.8-0.9 mm thick. This weed is very difficult to distinguish from Eleocharis kuroguwai at the vegetative stage. Leaves have very short blades. The stem is flattened at the base, strongly angled at the top.This weed reproduces by seeds. Seeds normally germinate at 25-35 °C with a germination of 10-25%. Seeds readily germinates at 1 cm water depth on 1-1.5 cm soil depth but there is no appreciable germination 3-5 cm soil depth. Seed dormancy is broken by low temperature under moist conditions, it also require light for germination.A common plant in lowland rice in North America, Asia, Southern Africa and some Mediterranean countries.Stale seedbed is on of the best ways to control this annual weed. Seeds should not be buried deeply in soil because of seed dormancy. Once the weed seeds come back close to the soil surface they will readily germinate.Countries:Korea (South),ThailandSIDA ACUTABurn. f.Family:MalvaceaeErect, branched, suffrutescent herb, 0.5-1 m high. Leaves lanceolate, acute, 3-5 cm long, pale green. Flowers axillary, solitary or in pairs, the pedicels jointed near the middle; corolla yellow, about 1.9 cm in diameter.It reproduces by seeds. A pantropical plant, common in hot and semi-dry environment, frequent in orchards, grassland and waste places.Hormone weed killers are effective when applied in early growth of the weed.Countries:Bahamas,SONCHUS OLERACEUS L.Family:AsteraceaeA glabrous, erect, annual herb with milky juice and up to a meter, sometimes more, tall. Stem soft and hollow. Leaves alternate, sessile; leaf-bases with large irregular auricles. Heads about 2 cm long and in diameter, in terminal cymose panicles. Florets ligulate, yellow. Achenes brown and compressed. It reproduces by seeds.It is a weed widely distributed all over the tropical and sub-tropical world, very common in vegetables, legumes and other annual crops.Countries:Eritrea,Iran,Morocco,United Arab EmiratesSPHENOCLEA ZEYLANICA Gaertn.Family:SphenocleaceaeAn erect, aquatic annual broadleaf that grows to 30-150 cm. The stem is smooth, stout, fleshy, hollow and much-branched. Leaves are simple, spirally arranged, oblong to lanceloate up to 10 cm long, 3 cm wide, narrowed to a point at the tip with a short stalk and entire margins. The inflorescence has green, cylindrical, dense terminal spikes, up to 7.5 cm long, 12 mm wide on a stalk up to 8 cm in length. Flowers are sessile, densely crowded, white to greenish and it is about 2.5 mm long and wide. Fruits are flattened, globular capsules, 4-5 mm across, splitting transversely. Seeds are numerous, yellowish-brown, 0-5 mm long.It is propagated by seeds. S. zeylanica grows well in wet soils, but it prefers stagnant water in lowland areas in many countries of Asia.Countries:Guyana,Nepal,Philippines,Thailand,VietnamSYNEDRELLA NODIFLORA (L.)Gaertn.Family:AsteraceaeAnnual, branched with erect stems, up to 1 m height; leaves opposite and ovate. Inflorescence, clustered yellow flower heads (1-7), with leaf-like bracts. It reproduces by seeds.It is a common plant of hot environment, either in humid or semi-dry areas.Countries:Cameroon,Gambia,VietnamUROCHLOA MUTICA (Forsk.) Stapf.Family:PoaceaeSynonyms:Panicum purpurascens Raddi, Panicum muticum,. Forsk., Brachiaria purpurascens Henr, Urochloa mutica (Forsk.)NguyenCommon names:Paragrass Watergrass Paraná Yerba del Paral, Herbe de Para, Capim do Pará, Capim do Angola.Perennial stoloniferous grassweed, culms erect, rooting at nodes, up to 150 cm tall, leaves linear-lanceolate 10-30 cm long, ligule membranous, inflorescence panicles of up to 30 cm long, with nearly opposite racemes, spikelet ellipticIt reproduces well through its stolons. Seed reproduction is quite low in general.A common plant in wet areas, very common in the borders of ditches and canals, and paddy fields. It also grows well in soils poor of Ca. It is a weed in rice and also in irrigated sugar cane areas.It is found in tropical and subtropical areas of America, Africa, Asia, Australia, Southern Europe and Middle East.Land preparation exposing stolons to the soil surface for some time helps to dessicate them and to reduceB. muticainfestations. In rice areas water removal for a while reduces the stand of the weed. It is also well controlled by fop and dim post-emergence graminicides.Countries:Burkina Faso,Congo (Democratic),Cuba,ThailandBack to Database of Weed Species in Crops and Countries 
URL: PORTULACA OLERACEACountries:Bahamas,Belize,Bangladesh,Brazil,China,Congo (Democratic),Cuba,India,Iran,Philippines,Back to Database of Weed Species in Crops and Countries 
URL: BIDENS PILOSAL.Family:AsteraceaeSynonyms: Bidens chinensis Willd., B.leucantha Willd., B. subalternans Dc.Common names:Spanish needle, Hairy Beggartick, Beggar tick, Romerillo, Moriseco, Mozote, ZégwyiAn annual herb, up to 90 cm tall, 4-angled stem glabrous, leaves opposite, divided into 3-5 ovate-lanceolate, flowers yellow and achenes nearly linear.Bidens pilosa is a pantropical plant easily found in hot climate countries. It propagates via seeds.In areas with conventional land preparation and cultivationB. pilosais not a problem, but not in areas, where certain herbicides are used repeatedly.Resistant biotypes to imazaquin herbicide have been found in fields of soyabean in Brazil (1993), and also to paraquat in coffee plantations in Kenya (1991).In Brazil, effective control ofB. pilosaby aHelminthosporiumstrain has been found in soyabean areas.It is common in arable land, gardens and waste places, and widely spread in tropical and sub-tropical zones.Countries:Bahamas,Burundi,Cameroon,Colombia,Costa Rica,Erithrea,RwandaBack toDatabase of Weed Species in Crops and Countries 
